A New Distributed Energy Management Strategy for Smart Grid With Stochastic Wind Power
Değişken rüzgar enerjili akıllı şebeşebeke için yeni bir dağıtık enerji yönetim stratejisi

Abstract—In this article, a distributed energy management strategy is proposed for smart grid with stochastic wind power. The different Weibull probability distribution function (PDF) of wind power during different operation intervals, coupled with ramp rate limits of thermal generators across operation intervals, is considered in this operation cost optimization problem. Under multiagent system communication framework, we first decompose the problem into subproblems associated to operation interval. For each operation interval, parameters of Weibull PDF are estimated by maximum likelihood method according to wind speed obtained by wind speed forecast model of committed wind turbine. Then, a consensus-based alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) is proposed to get the optimal operation plan for all committed generators, where Armijo line search algorithm is employed to adaptively obtain the step size in the iterations.The simulation results show that the proposed consensus-based ADMM outperforms distributed projected gradient method in previous study on energy management with wind power; the proposed distributed strategy is valid for short-term energy management for smart grid with stochastic wind power.

Özet – Bu makalede, değişken rüzgar enerjili akıllı şebeke için dağıtık bir enerji yönetim stratejisi önerilmiştir. Farklı çalışma dönemleri boyunca rüzgar gücünün farklı Weibull olasılık dağılım fonksiyonu (ODF - PDF) ile birlikte çalışma dönemleri süresince termal jeneratörlerin rampa oranı (güç üretimindeki değişim) limitleri, buradaki işletim maliyeti optimizasyonu probleminde ele alınan faktörlerdir.Çok ajanlı sistem iletişim çerçevesi altında, öncelikle problemi işletim aralıkları ile bağlantılı alt problemlere ayırıyoruz.Her bir işletim aralığı için; Weibull PDF parametreleri, ilişkili rüzgar türbininin rüzgar hızı tahmin modeli ile elde edilmiş olan rüzgar hızına göre maksimum olabilirlik yöntemi ile tahmin edilmiştir.Ardından, tüm ilişkili jeneratörler için en uygun işletim planını elde etmek üzere fikir birliğine dayalı çarpanların değişken yönleri modeli (ÇDYM - ADMM) önerilmiş ve tekrarlarda adım boyutunu adaptif olarak elde etmek için Armijo satır arama algoritması kullanılmıştır. Simülasyon sonuçları, önerilen fikir birliğine dayalı DYÇM'nin, önceki rüzgar enerjisi ile enerji yönetimi çalışmasında önerilmiş olan dağıtık öngörülen gradyan yönteminden daha iyi performans sunduğunu göstermektedir. Önerilen dağıtık strateji, değişken rüzgar enerjili  akıllı şebeke için kısa vadeli enerji yönetiminde geçerlidir.

Index Terms—Alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM), distributed energy management, multiagent system, smart grid, stochastic wind power.

Anahtar Kelimeler-Çarpanların değişken yönleri modeli (ÇDYM),  Dağıtık enerji yönetimi, çok ajanlı sistem, akıllı şebeke, değişken rüzgar gücü

I. INTRODUCTION
AS DISTRIBUTED energy resources are incorporated into power grid, energy management system becomes a more vital part for future power management. The main objective of energy management is to minimize the operation cost and determine the optimal power output of the committed generators under certain constraints while meeting forecast load demand during a certain time horizon [1]. In the past decade, centralized methods have been applied to energy management (see e.g., [2]–[4] and references therein). These centralized energy management strategies require global information from all committed generators, and thus need a central dispatcher. However, since the distributed energy resources belong to different owners or are dispersed across different sites, centralized energy management is not likely to be feasible [5]. Moreover, centralized energy management system (EMS) is more likely to be disabled when the smart grid suffers an extreme event such as natural or man-made incidents. 

Dağıtık enerji kaynakları elektrik şebekesine dahil edildikçe, enerji yönetim sistemleri gelecekteki güç yönetimi için daha hayati bir parça haline gelmektedir. Enerji yönetiminin temel amacı, belirli bir zaman aralığında tahmini yük talebini karşılarken, işletme maliyetini en aza indirgemek ve belirli kısıtlamalarla, ilişkili jeneratörlerin optimum güç çıkışını belirlemektir [1]. Geçtiğimiz on yılda, enerji yönetiminde merkezi yöntemler kullanıldı (bkz. [2]-[4] ve içlerindeki atıflar). Bu merkezi enerji yönetimi stratejileri, bağlı olan tüm jeneratörlerden genel bilgiye gereksinim duyar ve bu nedenle merkezi bir dağıtıcıya ihtiyaç vardır. Ancak, dağıtık enerji kaynakları farklı sahiplere ait olduğundan veya farklı sahalara dağıldığından, bu durumda merkezi enerji yönetimi uygulanabilir değildir [5]. Dahası, akıllı şebeke, doğal veya insan yapımı afetler gibi extrem olaylardan olumsuz etkilendiğinde, merkezi enerji yönetim sistemi'nin (EYS) devre dışı kalma olasılığı daha yüksektir.


Compared with centralized energy management strategies, distributed ones have higher scalability, reliability, and resilience [6]. Currently, distributed energy management strategies have been extensively studied [7]–[10]. When considering the ramp rate limits, distributed energy management strategies were investigated in [11]–[16]. Specifically, in [11]–[13], distributed energy management for conventional thermal generators (TGs) was solved by a distributed primal-dual consensus algorithm. In [14], an augmented Lagrangian relaxation method was proposed to address energy management for general TGs. In [15], energy management problem for TGs and photovoltaic power generators was resolved by a distributed primal-dual interior point method. In [16], a distributed algorithm combined average consensus and Lagrangian gradient dynamics was put forward for energy management with distributed energy resources including storage. Nevertheless, there are limited works on distributed energy management strategies for smart grid with stochastic wind power. As a distributed renewable resource, wind energy has inherent advantages over traditional fossil fuel energy due to its environment friendliness. With the increasing penetration of stochastic wind power into smart grid, there is a pressing need for considering energy management involving wind power. However, the characteristic of intermittent and stochasticity of wind speed leads to uncertainty in wind power output, which causes the design of distributed energy management strategies more difficult. Owing to integration of energy storage devices into wind farm, the gap between the scheduled wind power and the available wind power can be eliminated by energy storage devices, and then stochastic wind power can be scheduled like conventional TGs. In this situation, a deterministic model was adopted in [17] to characterize the cost function of wind power, where the underestimation and overestimation costs of available wind power are included. Distributed energy management strategies with stochastic wind power described by this model were investigated in [18] and [19]. However, ramp rate limits existing in practical operation of TGs are not considered. Moreover, the fact that different wind power profiles during different operation intervals is not mentioned. Based on the aforementioned background, we consider dis- tributed energy management for smart grid consisting of conventional TGs and wind turbines (WTs), where ramp rate limits for TGs and wind power profile during different operation intervals for WTs are both taken into consideration. We formulate the energy management problem as an operation cost optimization problem. The main challenges in developing a distributed strat- egy for this problem include the following. 1) If ramp rate limits are taken into account, this energy management problem becomes a time-coupling multi- time periods optimization problem. 2) For multiple operation intervals, wind power changes with wind speed, and thus has a different distribution over different dispatch intervals. 3) Though the operation cost function of the wind power was proven to be a convex function in [20], the optimal solution is still hard to be obtained in a distributed manner because of non elementary function (integrals) in it. Although distributed strategies for TGs with ramp rate limits have been proposed in previous works [11]–[15], all the cost functions are quadratic functions. A distributed strategy for a general convex cost function with considering ramp rate limits of TGs has been studied in [16], however, all the box constraints are eliminated by penalty function, the determination of all the parameters in penalty terms is a hard work. Hence, it is necessary to develop a distributed strategy for this problem. Alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) is an optimization algorithm with both benefits of dual decomposition and augmented Lagrangian methods, and can get modest accuracy for many applications with tens of iterations [21]–[24], so it is suitable to tackle this convex optimization problem. Therefore, a consensus-based ADMM algorithm is proposed to solve our problem, where the communication network is based on a multiagent system framework. Though a similar method was proposed in [25] to solve grid welfare problem, the objective function is merely a quadratic function. Instead of using consensus protocol in [25], a weighted gradient descent consensus algorithm is introduced into the updating process of ADMM to solve the general convex cost function of WT. Specifically, the main contributions of this article are listed as follows. 1) The original energy management for smart grid with stochastic wind power is improved in the following two aspects. One is that the ramp rate limits of TGs are taken into consideration, compared with existing works [18], [19]. The other is that the wind power profile during different operation intervals is characterized by different Weibull distributions, where the parameters in each dispatch interval is estimated by maximum likelihood method. 2) A consensus-based ADMM is proposed to solve this operation cost optimization problem in a distributed manner, where the step size in iterations is adaptively obtained by Armijo line search algorithm. Different from energy management with stochastic wind power investigated by centralized manner in [26] and [27], the committed gener- ators only communicate with neighbors to obtain optimal operation plan in a distributed manner. The proposed algorithm does not need to exchange the vector of global estimated optimal values in each iteration as distributed projected gradient method (DPGM) in [18], and thus has a better convergence performance. The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Some preliminaries and formulation of operation cost optimization are provided in Section II. Then, the distributed energy management strategy is designed in Section III-C. Case studies are pre- sented in Section IV to verify the effectiveness of the proposed distributed energy management strategies. Finally, Section V concludes this article.

V. CONCLUSION
In this article, energy management with stochastic wind power in smart grid was investigated, where both ramp rate limits of TGs and the wind power profile during different dispatch interval for WTs were considered. The communication framework of committed generators was based on multiagent system. On the basis of decomposing the time-coupling ramp rate limits and estimating the parameters of Weibull distribution in each dispatch interval, the distributed computation procedure by ADMM was deduced, where Armijo line search algorithm was introduced to obtain step size adaptively in the iterations. The proposed algorithm was tested on modified 6-bus, modified 30-bus, and modified 57-bus system. It was shown that the proposed algorithm has the same accuracy but better performance compared with DPGM. Meanwhile, the proposed algorithm also demon- strated good performance in short-term energy management with stochastic wind power. Further work will consider energy management with plug-in electric vehicles in a distributed manner.